Music
Limuru Cheshire home is a home
for girls with special needs.
And basically it's about two things.
One, to enable them to function as much as
possible, independent and live, and two,
to come up with a vocational skill
that can act as an income generating
skill when they leave these premises.
Most of our students are brought in here
by social workers who have either been
requested to help settle a conflicting or
a girl that is really being molested or
violated, or a girl living in a scenario
where there's a lot of incest.
So when they come the first day is
just welcoming them and let her be.
So that you also assess their temperament,
their likes, whether
she's feeling homesick.
You just listen to them.
Most of them like to talk a lot and they
keep saying, don't lock me,
don't close, lock me in a room.
So then you get to know, who is this?
What are they referring to?
The second week now you
start what they need.
Like if somebody have to be bathed,
you make sure that is in place.
If they have to be dressed,
make sure that is in place.
If you find she can't do her
laundry, you just organize.
So the first week is just
watching them and taking note.
And then you come up,
you draw an individualized
empowerment plan.
Music
The first year is self
management and life skills.
The second year is an exposure to the nine
vocational skills that we offer
with an aim of knowing the God given
potentiality trapped
within the individual.
And now she has to leave the other nine
vocational skills and we zero
into this particular one.
If it is cookery, dressmaking, knitting,
with a bind of her being able
to take the kniter exams.
And in the fourth year,
now we zero in into preparing her
for graduation and also entrepreneurship
skills that she will be able to know how
to handle the customer, how to compete
ably outside there in the business world.
This year, around October, November,
we are intending to graduate 24.
We are meant to go out after the 9th month
of their graduation to find out how they
are doing, if they are succeeding,
what are the success stories?
If they are not, what are the issues?
And can we work together with their
caretakers and unravel, find a solution?
Music
These girls need a lot,
a lot of appreciation, recognition and
just knowing that you are there for them.
I answer to God's call.
The core issue is my ability
to identify what God is saying.
I have to ensure as I wake up
in the morning that they feel, they feel I
love them, they know I care and that's it.
And that I create that free space
that the child knows nothing can harm me.
And once they feel safe and secure,
they start talking, they start moving.
And it's so beautiful
to watch them unfold.
So that sense of being useful
and the conviction that God wants me to be
here, that gives you the drive,
the desire, and also
the keenness now of consulting.
I see the young one walk in from the gate,
and I see them walk out,
and I can comfortably tell
the transitional
level of the empowerment that we have
done and what finally we have achieved.
Music